We just heard that a time series may
need to be transformed by differencing
to be made stationary.
What exactly does that mean?
Well, to begin, a stationary time
series is one where the mean and
variance are constant overtime.
A real model's making
adjustments in its calculation
to make the series stationary.
A stationarized series is relatively
easy to predict for our models.
It simply predicts that its mean and
variance will be the same in the future
as they have been in the past.
A stationary time series will also allow
us to obtain meaningful statistics such
as means, variances and
correlations with other variables.
These statistics are only useful
descriptors if the series is stationary.
For example, if a series is consistently
increasing over time, such as what
we have seen with our Bates Hotel
booking series, the sample mean and
variance will grow with the size of the
sample and our forecasting models will
always underestimate the mean and
variance in the future periods.
This is why we need
a stationary data set.